readme.md, before:

# Manual formatting is annoying

That's why this repo has some tools to avoid any [ESP](https://tc.tugraz.at/main/mod/page/view.php?id=55770) or [OOP](https://tc.tugraz.at/main/mod/book/view.php?id=341931&chapterid=1176) Style-Guide violations in C or CPP for the ESP/OOP Assignments.

- `clang-format` (https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormat.html)
  can autoformat the code, e.g. putting braces on the correct line, having max. 120 characters per line

  _rules are defined in the `.clang-format` file._

- `clang-tidy` (https://clang.llvm.org/extra/clang-tidy/)
  can point out other issues in the code that cannot easily be auto-fixed e.g. having constants named in UPPERCASE etc.

  _rules are defined in the `.clang-tidy` file._

- `c/cpp-snippets`
things like file- or function-header comment. For fast commenting your code
To use this look in the `C_snippets.json` file for more information.

Normally these tools should work out of the box in VSCode/Codium if the [C++ extension](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/cpp) is installed.

In the vscode settings file (`.vscode/settings.json`) is the config to automatically run `clang-tidy` code analysis (this will point out problems in your c file by underlining it red) and use `clang-format` automatically when saving the file, so it is never formatted wrongly. Also it adds the `clang` flags to show warnings etc.

This is not complete yet, and I did not test it a lot either - it should just make our life easier - if you find something in the [style guide](https://tc.tugraz.at/main/mod/page/view.php?id=55770) that I did not consider in the rule files, please add a PR and help your fellow students, thanks


# Setting up the tools
## 1.) Install the Requirements:

- ### [C/C++ extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.cpptools), [clang-format](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=xaver.clang-format) and [clang-tidy](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=notskm.clang-tidy) Extension for VSCode:

    #### 2 Options to install:

    - search for it directly in the `VSCode Extension Manager`
    
    - or `Download the VSIX` file and install it manually by opening the VSCode-commandline [Shift]+[Strg]+[P] and search for "VSIX". Select the "Install from VSIX...", and now you can navigate in the file explorer to the VSIX-file to install it.

- ### clang-format:
    add the following to your `/etc/apt/sources.list`:

      deb http://apt.llvm.org/jammy/ llvm-toolchain-jammy main
      deb-src http://apt.llvm.org/jammy/ llvm-toolchain-jammy main
      # 14
      deb http://apt.llvm.org/jammy/ llvm-toolchain-jammy-14 main
      deb-src http://apt.llvm.org/jammy/ llvm-toolchain-jammy-14 main
      # 15
      deb http://apt.llvm.org/jammy/ llvm-toolchain-jammy-15 main
      deb-src http://apt.llvm.org/jammy/ llvm-toolchain-jammy-15 main

    then type following commands:

      sudo apt update
      sudo apt-cache search clang-format
      sudo apt-get install clang-format-<VERSION>
      whereis clang-format-<VERSION>


    >NOTE: The requiered version of clang-format is 16


## 2.) Cloning the tools

direct to your `ESP-folder` via Terminal and then clone the repository:

    git clone https://github.com/Sol000/tugraz-c-cpp-style-tools.git

after doing this drag all the files from `tugraz-esp-c-style-tools` into the `ESP-folder`.

## 3.) Setting up the settings.json in VSCode

- To open up the global settings of VSCode: </br>`File ---> Settings ---> file-icon (at the top right)`

- Add this to the file:

      "clang-format.executable": "/usr/bin/clang-format-<VERSION>",
      "editor.tabSize": 2,
      "editor.formatOnSave": true,
      "editor.codeActionsOnSave": {
          "source.fixAll": true
      },
      "C_Cpp.codeAnalysis.runAutomatically": true,
      "C_Cpp.codeAnalysis.clangTidy.enabled": true,
      "clang-format.language.c.enable": true,
      "clang-format.language.cpp.enable": true,
      "clang-format.style": "file",
      "clang-tidy.fixOnSave": true,
      "[c]": {
          "editor.defaultFormatter": "xaver.clang-format",
          "editor.wordBasedSuggestions": false,
          "editor.suggest.insertMode": "replace",
          "editor.semanticHighlighting.enabled": true,
      },
      "[cpp]": {
        "editor.defaultFormatter": "xaver.clang-format",
        "editor.wordBasedSuggestions": false,
        "editor.suggest.insertMode": "replace",
        "editor.semanticHighlighting.enabled": true
    },

Commit message:

added auto-install.sh and updated readme.

readme.md, after:

# Manual formatting is annoying

That's why this repo has some tools to avoid any [ESP](https://tc.tugraz.at/main/mod/page/view.php?id=55770) or [OOP](https://tc.tugraz.at/main/mod/book/view.php?id=341931&chapterid=1176) Style-Guide violations in C or CPP for the ESP/OOP Assignments.

- `clang-format` (https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormat.html)
  can autoformat the code, e.g. putting braces on the correct line, having max. 120 characters per line

  _rules are defined in the `.clang-format` file._

- `clang-tidy` (https://clang.llvm.org/extra/clang-tidy/)
  can point out other issues in the code that cannot easily be auto-fixed e.g. having constants named in UPPERCASE etc.

  _rules are defined in the `.clang-tidy` file._

- `c/cpp-snippets`
things like file- or function-header comment. For fast commenting your code
To use this look in the `C_snippets.json` file for more information.

Normally these tools should work out of the box in VSCode/Codium if the [C++ extension](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/cpp) is installed.

In the vscode settings file (`.vscode/settings.json`) is the config to automatically run `clang-tidy` code analysis (this will point out problems in your c file by underlining it red) and use `clang-format` automatically when saving the file, so it is never formatted wrongly. Also it adds the `clang` flags to show warnings etc.

This is not complete yet, and I did not test it a lot either - it should just make our life easier - if you find something in the [style guide](https://tc.tugraz.at/main/mod/page/view.php?id=55770) that I did not consider in the rule files, please add a PR and help your fellow students, thanks


# Setting up the tools
## 1.) Install the Requirements:

- ### [C/C++ extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.cpptools), [clang-format](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=xaver.clang-format) and [clang-tidy](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=notskm.clang-tidy) Extension for VSCode:

    #### 2 Options to install:

    - search for it directly in the `VSCode Extension Manager`
    
    - or `Download the VSIX` file and install it manually by opening the VSCode-commandline [Shift]+[Strg]+[P] and search for "VSIX". Select the "Install from VSIX...", and now you can navigate in the file explorer to the VSIX-file to install it.

- ### clang-format:
    then type following commands:

      sudo apt update
      sudo apt-cache search clang-format
      sudo apt-get install clang-format-<VERSION>
      whereis clang-format-<VERSION>


## 2.) Cloning the tools

direct to your `ESP-folder` via Terminal and then clone the repository:

    git clone https://github.com/Sol000/tugraz-c-cpp-style-tools.git

go in the `tugraz-c-cpp-style-tools`-directory and type `chmod +x auto-installer.sh`
after doing that, run `./auto-installer.sh`
Done.

## 3.) Setting up the settings.json in VSCode

- To open up the global settings of VSCode: </br>`File ---> Settings ---> file-icon (at the top right)`

- Add this to the file:

      "clang-format.executable": "/usr/bin/clang-format-<VERSION>",
      "editor.tabSize": 2,
      "editor.formatOnSave": true,
      "editor.codeActionsOnSave": {
          "source.fixAll": true
      },
      "C_Cpp.codeAnalysis.runAutomatically": true,
      "C_Cpp.codeAnalysis.clangTidy.enabled": true,
      "clang-format.language.c.enable": true,
      "clang-format.language.cpp.enable": true,
      "clang-format.style": "file",
      "clang-tidy.fixOnSave": true,
      "[c]": {
          "editor.defaultFormatter": "xaver.clang-format",
          "editor.wordBasedSuggestions": false,
          "editor.suggest.insertMode": "replace",
          "editor.semanticHighlighting.enabled": true,
      },
      "[cpp]": {
        "editor.defaultFormatter": "xaver.clang-format",
        "editor.wordBasedSuggestions": false,
        "editor.suggest.insertMode": "replace",
        "editor.semanticHighlighting.enabled": true
    },
